feat: document personal data storage options (#1738)
ory/docs: docs/security-compliance/personal-data-location.md

geographical location of where the request originates.

Personal data in Ory Network is always homed to a particular region and stored only there. For users from the EU, their personal
data is stored on servers physically located in the EU. For users from the US, their personal data is stored in the US.

Ory Network handles this distinction for you transparently. You don't have to do anything to opt-in. Whatever data you query from
wherever you are located, Ory Network will combine any globally replicated operational data with regional personal data for you
automatically, reaching out behind the scenes to the region where that personal data is stored.

## Selecting a storage location for personal data

When you [create a new Ory Network project](https://console.ory.sh/projects/create) in the Ory Console, you are given a choice of
personal data storage location for your new project. Any personal data of your users and identities will be stored just in that
region , replicated within that region for availability and durability. Note that this choice is permanent for that project:

> moving personal data between regions is an administrative action, with which Ory Support is happy to assist enterprise customers.

Reviewer: Should we add a note that non-enterprise projects can choose one home region while enterprise can be global (multiple regions)?

---
id: personal-data-location
title: Personal data location and homing
sidebar_label: Personal data storage
---

> Ory Network is globally distributed for maximum resilience and minimum latency. Check out our

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ory Network is globally distributed for maximum resilience and minimum latency. Check out the
```

[blog post](https://www.ory.sh/global-identity-and-access-management-multi-region/) for details on how this works.

As discussed in that blog post, replicating personal data (also known as personally identifiable data or PII) across the globe is

> prohibited or made difficult by legislation like GDPR and would your user's control over their data.

Reviewer 2: >would your user's control over their data.

I think something is missing here?

Author: fixed

> prohibited or made difficult by legislation like GDPR and would your user's control over their data.

Reviewer 3: I think there is a word missing here? At least to me, the would doesn't make sense?

Reviewer 2: ah you were faster ;-)

> Ory Network solves this apparent dilemma by separating personal data from operational data. Personal data is any data concerning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ory Network solves this by separating personal data from operational data. Personal data is any data concerning
```

keep it short & concise 🙏

your users and identities managed by Ory: think email addresses, names, phone numbers, device and location data, emails, etc.
Operational data is everything else: think "is this session or access token valid?" or "does the user with this anonymized ID have
permission to access file X?"

> Ory Network globally replicates and makes available all operational data, giving you access with low latency based on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ory Network globally replicates and makes all operational data available, giving you access with low latency based on the
```

Author: This sublty changes the meaning.

geographical location of where the request originates.

> Personal data, on the other hand, is always homed to a particular region and stored only there. For users from the EU, their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Personal data in Ory Network is always homed to a particular region and stored only there. For users from the EU, their
```

personal data is stored on servers physically located in the EU. For users from the US, their personal data is stored in the US.

> You get the idea.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Ory Network handles this distinction for you transparently. You don't have to do anything to opt-in. Whatever data you query from

> wherever you are located, Ory Network will combine any globally-replicated operational data with regional personal data for you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
wherever you are located, Ory Network will combine any globally replicated operational data with regional personal data for you
```

automatically, reaching out behind the scenes to the region where that personal data is stored.

## Selecting a storage location for personal data

When you [create a new Ory Network project](https://console.ory.sh/projects/create) in the Ory Console, you are given a choice of

> personal data storage location for your new project. Any personal data if your users and identities will be stored that region

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
personal data storage location for your new project. Any personal data of your users and identities will be stored just in that region
```

> only (replicated within that region for availability and durability of course). Note that this choice is permanent for that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
, replicated within that region for availability and durability. Note that this choice is permanent for that
```
